+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
layout = "layout"
date = "2016-10-28T11:33:26+11:00"
draft = true
slug = "a-simple-and-intuitive-guide-to-understanding-your-depression"
title = "A Simple and Intuitive Guide to Understanding Your Depression"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/01.png"
thumbnailalt = "An image of a dashing young lad"

+++


The aim of this article is to help you come to terms with your depression. 

Ummmm, say what?

Don’t fret, you lucky young thing.

I promise it won't be an excruciating process, except for the part where I shame you in front of a large crowd of complete strangers for no apparent reason.

The method presented in this article will provide you with an incredibly simple, yet effective framework for you to learn and build upon, to help you better understand your depression.

If you stick with it you'll eventually be able to stop being depressed altogether, which would be pretty cool. Maybe even sexy, who knows. 

This article is split into two parts, to maintain clarity for the reader. 

The first part explains what makes an explanation effective, as well as how we misunderstand our depression by asking the wrong questions.

The second part goes into how we can ask the right questions and minimise the resistance we have towards 

Though baby steps, yeah? 

It’s hard enough when you can barely wake up in the morning, so I'm not asking you to go out and fix global politics.

While depression may not an easy topic to grasp, it by no means a difficult topic to approach.

I believe the current difficulty people face in trying to understand their depression comes down to the lack of intuitive explanations currently available on the internet.

Certainly, I personally spent years reading self-help articles and websites to no avail. Either the advice sucked or the information was too bloody convoluted to simply stick. 

In other words, these resources were ineffective because they were unintuitive.  

So let's try and undestand why.

##You deserve an intuitive high-five \*clap\*

I cannot emphasise how important intuitive explanations are. They change everything and here’s why:

Good explanations are like compelling narratives. They are logical stories which provide us with obvious hints and cues to help us understand any situation.

Likewise, we can also think of the process of understanding as a timeline from « I have no bloody idea what's going on" to the « ah-ha! » moment of self-realisation.

Explanations are those vitla tools which help us get to that « ah-ha! » moment. 

Of course, not all explanations are made equal.

Terrible explanations, as I'm sure you're aware, get us absolutely nowhere. 

Like an awful film tied together on a shoe-string budget, the plot makes makes no sense and you still have no idea why the entire cast has been replaced by a series of traffic cones.

In fact, terrible explanations can even compel us to misunderstand what is going on, bringing on a whole new world of pain to our lives. 

Next to terrible explanations are average explanations, and they are really no better. 

Like average films, they’re entirely forgettable. They take us 50% of the way there, if we’re lucky, though are generally so bland we've forgotten what we've watched by the next day.

Not to mention, this also leaves us with the other 50% of the situation to try and figure out for ourselves, which if you're depressed and stuck in a rut of emotional issues, becomes naturally impossible.

No. For an explanation to be effective, we need to be taken 90% to 95% of the way there, or as close as possible to full understanding as can be achieved. 

Because let’s face it: When you’re depressed and are barely functioning, to expect someone to spend even 10% of their effort to try and help themselves is absurd. 

This is where intuitive explanations fit in.

Intuitive explanations are like timeless movies. They are beautiful and timeless and can provide us with a convincing narrative to help us better understand who we are.

Intuitive explanations are designed to take us 90% of the way there. 

They are designed to be so easy and obvious, that absolutely anyone can internalise them and come to a level of functional understanding. 

If they don't, then it's not your fault. The explanation simply wasn't intuitive enough, which means concepts need to be further broken down so it becomes truly obvious. 

Of course, there is a natural limit to these things and intuitive explanations can only take you so far.  

Even though intuitive explanations can take you 90%, perhaps even 99% of the way there, you still need to find the effort to do the rest. 

This is often easier said than done and like anything in life, there are no guarantees, only statistical probabilities.

Never-the-less, this article details an effective and simple process for you to reach that « ah-ha » moment in your mind, or at the very least get you 90% of the way there for when you're ready.

I suppose the insurmountable takeaway from all this is that if you’re struggling with anything in life, it’s most likely because you lack an intuitive understanding of the situation. 

Only with intuition can we easily grasp the things which at first seem impossible: Like our depression, for example. 




##Tackling the usual approach. 

Chances are that you have partaken in the hilarious dynamic that takes place between yourself and someone else who is trying to understand your depression. 

« So Julius, ummm… __why__ are you always sooooo depressed? » 

In the struggle that ensues you contemplate explaining some horrible fact about your life (which of course, you are currently trying to suppress and so do not do) prompting you to muttering an elementary "I don't know". 

Next thing you know, we've escaped into the room next door to avoid conversation and basic eye-contact on a whole new soul-crushing level. 

Like most people, I get really annoyed when people ask me why I'm depressed. I clearly don't know, so please leave me alone. So much so, that I'll pretend not to be depressed so that people won't ask. 

You get it. I get it. Well, of course you get it. I know you do.

Yet despite how much it annoys us when others ask us why we’re sad, it is something we often do to ourselves, as if we are more qualified to ask.

In fact, I believe part of the reason why we get annoyed when people ask why we're depressed is because we inherently feel as if we're the only ones qualified or even justified to ask. Though this is besides the point.

Commonly known as rumination or that « self-critical » voice in your head, we can find ourselves constantly picking apart every single small detail in our lives: searching for an answer we feel entirely incapable of answering, and yet equally hopeless in our pursuit.

There are many reasons why we ruminate, but at the very least, it's a potential strategy and what’s the harm in trying, right? 

While asking questions is obviously important, the biggest issue is that we tend to ask the wrong questions. 

Wrong questions naturally lead to wrong answers, which can only strengthen our depression and mental illness. 

Trying to understand why we have depression is one of them.

In fact, trying to understand why we have depression is a lot like trying to create a movie that has no verifiable plot. 

With this kind of rumination we form terrible, uninformed explanations that don't bring us any closer to understanding our depression. 

We add all sorts of characters, scenes and props to our movies, however without an underlying plot - none of it can be pieced together into a coherent narrative that can help us make sense of the situation.

Of course, we're not stupid. After a while we notice that our explanations are rubbish, and so we try to improve on them.

So we continue adding more characters, more dialogue, not realising that the underlying issue is the overall lack of plot.


The issue with this approach is that it merely provides us with hope, rather than with a proper understanding of our depression, which is why depression often functions as a series of neverending cycles, where we think we understand our condition, only to fall back down into despair. 

Instead, I am going to introduce you to a different way of thinking about depression, that fundamentally changes the types of questions we ask about ourselves.

Instead, we are going to approach constructing our explanations with a plot in mind. 

It's really quite simple and a whole new way of understanding not only our depression, however the way we process life in general. 

