+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
layout = "layout"
date = "2016-10-08T11:33:26+11:00"
draft = true
slug = "a-simple-and-intuitive-guide-to-understanding-your-depression"
title = "A Simple and Intuitive Guide to Understanding Your Depression"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/"
thumbnailalt = "An image of a dashing young lad"

+++




The aim of this article is to help you come to terms with your depression. 

Ummmm, say what?

Don’t fret, you lucky young thing.

I promise it won't be an excruciating process, except for the part where I shame you in front of a large crowd of complete strangers for no apparent reason.

The method presented in this article will provide you with an incredibly simple, yet effective framework for you to learn and build upon, to help you better understand your depression.

If you stick with it you'll eventually be able to stop being depressed altogether, which would be pretty cool. Maybe even sexy, who knows. 

This article is split into two parts, to maintain clarity for the reader. 

The first part explains what makes an explanation effective, as well as how we misunderstand our depression by asking the wrong questions.

The second part goes into how we can ask the right questions and minimise the resistance we have towards 

Though baby steps, yeah? 

It’s hard enough when you can barely wake up in the morning, so I'm not asking you to go out and fix global politics.

While depression may not an easy topic to grasp, it by no means a difficult topic to approach.

I believe the current difficulty people face in trying to understand their depression comes down to the lack of intuitive explanations currently available on the internet.

Certainly, I personally spent years reading self-help articles and websites to no avail. Either the advice sucked or the information was too bloody convoluted to simply stick. 

In other words, these resources were ineffective because they were unintuitive.  

So let's try and undestand why.


##Tackling the usual approach. 

Chances are that you have partaken in the hilarious dynamic that takes place between yourself and someone else who is trying to understand your depression. 

« So Julius, ummm… __why__ are you always sooooo depressed? » 

In the struggle that ensues you contemplate explaining some horrible fact about your life (which of course, you are currently trying to suppress and so do not do) prompting you to muttering an elementary "I don't know". 

Next thing you know, we've escaped into the room next door to avoid conversation and basic eye-contact on a whole new soul-crushing level. 

Like most people, I get really annoyed when people ask me why I'm depressed. I clearly don't know, so please leave me alone. So much so, that I'll pretend not to be depressed so that people won't ask. 

You get it. I get it. Well, of course you get it. I know you do.

Yet despite how much it annoys us when others ask us why we’re sad, it is something we often do to ourselves, as if we are more qualified to ask.

In fact, I believe part of the reason why we get annoyed when people ask why we're depressed is because we inherently feel as if we're the only ones qualified or even justified to ask. Though this is besides the point.

Commonly known as rumination or that « self-critical » voice in your head, we can find ourselves constantly picking apart every single small detail in our lives: searching for an answer we feel entirely incapable of answering, and yet equally hopeless in our pursuit.

There are many reasons why we ruminate, but at the very least, it's a potential strategy and what’s the harm in trying, right? 

While asking questions is obviously important, the biggest issue is that we tend to ask the wrong questions. 

Wrong questions naturally lead to wrong answers, which can only strengthen our depression and mental illness. 

Trying to understand why we have depression is one of them.

In fact, trying to understand why we have depression is a lot like trying to create a movie that has no verifiable plot. 

With this kind of rumination we form terrible, uninformed explanations that don't bring us any closer to understanding our depression. 

We add all sorts of characters, scenes and props to our movies, however without an underlying plot - none of it can be pieced together into a coherent narrative that can help us make sense of the situation.

Of course, we're not stupid. After a while we notice that our explanations are rubbish, and so we try to improve on them.

So we continue adding more characters, more dialogue, not realising that the underlying issue is the overall lack of plot.

The issue with this approach is that it merely provides us with hope, rather than with a proper understanding of our depression, which is why depression often functions as a series of neverending cycles, where we think we understand our condition, only to fall back down into despair. 

Instead, I am going to introduce you to a different way of thinking about depression, that fundamentally changes the types of questions we ask about ourselves.

Instead, we are going to approach constructing our explanations with a plot in mind. 

It's really quite simple and a whole new way of understanding not only our depression, however the way we process life in general. 



It’s a simple, though incredibly powerful way of looking at things: 

Instead of asking why we’re depressed, let’s instead ask how we get depressed. 

While it may not seem significant, asking questions from this different point of view radically changes not only our definition of what depression is, but also how we relate to the emotions and feelings we experience. 

Why the how is more important.

Humans are inherently curious creatures, driven to explore, destroy and create in the most dramatic of ways. Humans have been asking the question of « why » since the moment we were able to communicate the very thoughts rushing through our brain. 

Yet despite the vast knowledge we have of the world and the universe at large, we still have no idea why things are the way we are. 

We don’t understand why the universe began, why the speed of light travels at a constant, why gravity exists, amongst the millions of other questions our species has pondered. 

Not that it’s ever mattered, because in the process we’ve managed to understand how these things work, and by understanding how they work, we have been able to understand how they relate to and affect our lives. 

While we don’t know why gravity is a fundamental force of nature, it hasn’t stopped us from being able to measure and observe gravity, include the basic understanding that if you jump from a tree, the impact is probably going to hurt in a bad, bad way. 

In other words, the why isn’t important, though more importantly, that understanding understanding why does not provide us with any insight into how something truly works. 

That’s stupid. You’re stupid.  

The beauty of intuitive explanations is that they rely on basic definitions. 

No more long-winded multi-paragraph explanations describing this thing called « self-awareness « . Just words. Simple, three-to-potentially-twenty-letter words. Brilliant. 

The difference between how and why is quite simple: 

How aims to explain the process.

Why aims to explain the meaning behind the process. 

Therefore, it is imperative that we focus on processes, in particular, the process of depression. Yes, believe it or not, depression is a process. 

While this does not seem significant, this is huge game changer in the way that we can come to understand our depression. 

When you break depression down to a question of how, it can then be understood from the point of view of a process that takes place in our minds. And you know the best thing about processes: Processes are entirely predictable. 

A process can be thought of is a series of events that have a beginning and an end. Even more simply, they can be thought of a sequential breakdown of the events that occur in your life. 

Even if you consider yourself a drunken mess of incomprehensible disorganisation, there are everyday processes which we can all identify. You may notice that at some point in the day we may wake up and sleep. 

At some point in the day we eat. When we eat, you may notice that we need to get the ingredients from the fridge or pantry to be processed.  Which ingredients? How is it processed? Do you eat with a fork or a spoon or with your hands? 

These are all questions which can help us better understand the processes (the how of life) which occur in our lives and is an excellent place to start with better understanding our depression. 

Remember, understanding why something happens does not provide us with insight into how it works. Only by understanding how something works can we affect the circumstances around us. 



Identifying the process of depression. 

So you’re convinced that depression can be understood from the point of view of a process.

Well, great! 

Now give me all your money and sign up to my newsletter. 

/*   SIGN UP TO MY NEWSLETTER   */

Of course, the fun doesn’t stop there. 

