+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
layout = "layout"
date = "2016-10-08T11:33:26+11:00"
draft = true
slug = "a-simple-and-intuitive-guide-to-understanding-your-depression"
title = "A Simple and Intuitive Guide to Understanding Your Depression"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/"
thumbnailalt = "An image of a dashing young lad"

+++


Understanding the process of depression needs to be gradual. I’m not expecting you or anyone to immediately understand how everything in your life works, however that doesn’t mean we cannot start small. 

To ease ourselves into this new paradigm, we need to understand that asking the question of how can largely be thought of as a different way of thinking.

To engage with this new way of thinking, we need to ask basic questions in regards to the processes in our lives. 

Earlier we asked to identify the basic processes in our lives and that is what we are going to do now. It is important that we consciously identify these processes, because it engages our brain to think about these things. 

It is important to start small because it allows us to identify smaller processes, before we can identity larger ones. 

To start, we are going to list the things that we do on a daily basis. It doesn’t need to be comprehensive. It just needs to be anything you can remember. 

Remember, baby steps. In fact, this idea of baby steps is a misconception I must address. 

The biggest misconception about beginning steps is that they are pointless. In actual fact, beginning steps are fundamental in ways that contradict our understanding of learning. 

Pointlessness is a perception based on how we measure our time and effort. In our minds, we assume that more is better, that efforts need to be rigorous in order to gain something. 

It is part of the reason why we think so much and ruminate about our depression; this idea that effort can be a sign of effectiveness. 

This is untrue and the fact that these steps are basic or easy should is not a sign of ineffectiveness, and is one of the key lessons we will come to learn about understanding processes. 

An example of this is when I started learning undergraduate maths approximately one month ago. 

The first two weeks are a nightmare. You have no real idea what’s going on, and it feels like a waste of time. In actual fact, you’re simply getting familiar with the terminology and the way maths is.

To break it down into something more fundamental, there is a difference between actual thinking and learning to think. 

Not to go too in-depth, however thinking is very much an unconscious process, whilst learning to think is a highly conscious process, though this a post for another time. 

Back to our original task, write down some basic tasks you carry out through a typical day. 

Here’s what I can come up with:

- Wake up. 
- Take bus.
- Work.
- Eat lunch.
- Resume work. 
- Take bus home.
- Eat dinner.

Then take one of these processes and describe what happens. For example, with waking up in the morning:

- Hear alarm. 
- Turn off alarm.
- Cuddle girlfriend. 
- Get out of bed. 
- Put clothes on.
- Put charged laptop into bag. 
- Pack lunch.
- Leave house. 

The point of these exercises is to help us become more aware of what goes on in our lives, so we can understand how these processes affect us. 

A common misconception many people have is that because we experience depression, we know what actually goes on.

The problem is that even though we have an unconscious recollection of the experience, we don’t have a conscious understand what what took place. 

It’s like the difference between those who read about popular science and those who study the science itself. 

Though the people who read the popular science books have their own understanding of how things work, they often have difficulty explaining what they know with words. 

Much the same can be said of our depression. 

While we can maintain a personal understanding of what our depression is, such as how it feels or what might have triggered it, to actually describe a complete picture of our depression can be a struggle. 

That’s okay and the details of our depression is something we can worry about later. For the time being, we only need to focus on other more basic processes that we are familiar with. 

Once we lay the foundation for the easy stuff, it will make it a lot easier to approach the more difficult stuff - like your depression.  

Painting a clearer picture of our depression

So now we have an idea of some of these processes which occur in our day-to-day lives. This is a big step, especially if it’s something you’ve never thought out. 

That’s pretty cool. 

Inherently, people don’t actively think in terms of processes. Instead, a lot of what we do is internalised subconsciously in our minds, precisely so we don’t have to think. 

Have you ever traveled to work or maybe even brushed your teeth before bed and immediately after, felt as if you’d been magically transported through time? 

This happens often with tasks we do on a regular basis. We complete them so many times, we no longer need to think of them and we no longer need to consciously think about doing them. 

Our depression functions on a similar basis. We simply engage in behaviours without consciously questioning how they may affect us; behaviours which form into processes which lead to our depression. 

Back to our more familiar processes however, our next step is to continue elaborating so we can continue to grow this new way of thinking. Let’s stick to when we wake up. 

There are a few angles or points of view you can take:

- What time do you wake up? 
- How do you feel when you wake up?
- How long does it take you to wake up?
- What do you see when you wake up? 
- What is the purpose of waking up? 


You may notice something as well when you think about these questions. Your mind slows down. Yes, that is because you are now self-reflecting. 

In fact, what this entire article has described is a process of self-awareness through meditation. 

Tricky, ey? 

Now the idea is to do the same with your depression, to break it down into components so we can understand the wider process and therefore prevent ourselves from future episodes. 

However, that is not what we are going to do. 

Because at the end of the day, dismantling our depression is not an effective strategy. What’s truly important, is changing the way we think to understanding the question of how, rather than why. 

It’s all about how you frame it. 

As you may discover (self-discovery spoiler alert!) depression can be caused by anything, at will, from nearly everything. 

Only by changing the way we think, can we change the way we view the world and subsequently, prevent ourselves from our depression.

Like anything, start small. 

All you need is a few minutes a day and everything will begin to piece together. You could be at the cafe. In the shower. In the car. 

Just ask yourself: What process am I currently engaging in? How does it make me feel? Where the hell am I?

Only through engaging this conscious questions can we eventually 

Of course, there is one glaring issue that I need to raise with this method. 

While following this method can help you understand your depression and how it arises, it cannot actually prevent you engaging in behaviours that make you depressed. 

While it can help you understand that certain people in your life are toxic, it can’t give you the courage to actually cut them off.

In most cases however, having that understanding is enough to motivate people to change. 

Otherwise, I cannot think of a non-violent, nor ethical way to help. 

In other cases, you may simply lack the domain knowledge to be able to understand the process at hand, in which case professionals can readily close the gap. 

This is particularly true if your depression is caused by a nutritional issue (as is often the case) and you don’t quite understand how eating junk food and getting five hours of sleep a night is affecting your mood.

Again I emphasise this heavily: Knowing that junk food is bad and being able to clearly put into words how junk food affects your mood as process are two completely different things. 

Conscious. Conscious. Conscious. It’s about changing the way we think, not about want we know. People who smoke know it’s bad for them. They simply don’t consciously engage with this understanding enough to truly realise how bad it is. 

Sounds stupid, I know, but the practice of actually consciously thinking about something is much more difficult to do in reality, as opposed to simply read about it. 

Honestly, don’t worry.

So there you have it: A certifiable method to help you understand your depression. Understandably this article fails to cover , and didn’t go into the specifics of depression itself, however I feel it doesn’t need to.

What is most important is how you think. Once you sort that out, the problems disappear along with it.   

All it takes is a few minutes a day, which will become more and more frequent the more you stick to it. It’s a skill that grows with time. 

Baby steps… I mean, super fundamental awesome steps. 

Oh, and you can let go of my hand now. 