+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
layout = "layout"
date = "2016-10-08T11:33:26+11:00"
draft = true
slug = "a-simple-and-intuitive-guide-to-understanding-your-depression"
title = "A Simple and Intuitive Guide to Understanding Your Depression"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/"
thumbnailalt = "An image of a dashing young lad"

description = "My literary masterpiece on Pornography Addiction, and what it means to be a Porn Addict cuase a blah blah blah. Thanks Gogle. You've been amazinnnnnnnnnnnnnn braaaaaa. #Money. #Money. #Money. $$$$"


+++


The aim of this article is to help you come to terms with your depression. 

Ummmm, say what?

Don’t fret, you lucky young thing.

I promise it won't be an excruciating process, except for the part where I shame you in front of a large crowd of complete strangers for no apparent reason.

The method presented in this article will provide you with an incredibly simple, yet effective framework for you to learn and build upon, to help you better understand your depression.

If you stick with it you'll eventually be able to stop being depressed altogether, which would be pretty cool. Maybe even sexy, who knows. 

This article is split into two parts, to maintain clarity for the reader. 

The first part explains what makes an explanation effective, as well as how we misunderstand our depression by asking the wrong questions.

The second part goes into how we can ask the right questions and minimise the resistance we have towards 

Though baby steps, yeah? 

It’s hard enough when you can barely wake up in the morning, so I'm not asking you to go out and fix global politics.

While depression may not an easy topic to grasp, it by no means a difficult topic to approach.

I believe the current difficulty people face in trying to understand their depression comes down to the lack of intuitive explanations currently available on the internet.

Certainly, I personally spent years reading self-help articles and websites to no avail. Either the advice sucked or the information was too bloody convoluted to simply stick. 

In other words, these resources were ineffective because they were unintuitive.  

So let's try and undestand why.


##Tackling the usual approach. 

Chances are that you have partaken in the hilarious dynamic that takes place between yourself and someone else who is trying to understand your depression. 

« So Julius, ummm… __why__ are you always sooooo depressed? » 

In the struggle that ensues you contemplate explaining some horrible fact about your life (which of course, you are currently trying to suppress and so do not do) prompting you to muttering an elementary "I don't know". 

Next thing you know, we've escaped into the room next door to avoid conversation and basic eye-contact on a whole new soul-crushing level. 

Like most people, I get really annoyed when people ask me why I'm depressed. I clearly don't know, so please leave me alone. So much so, that I'll pretend not to be depressed so that people won't ask. 

You get it. I get it. Well, of course you get it. I know you do.

Yet despite how much it annoys us when others ask us why we’re sad, it is something we often do to ourselves, as if we are more qualified to ask.

In fact, I believe part of the reason why we get annoyed when people ask why we're depressed is because we inherently feel as if we're the only ones qualified or even justified to ask. Though this is besides the point.

Commonly known as rumination or that « self-critical » voice in your head, we can find ourselves constantly picking apart every single small detail in our lives: searching for an answer we feel entirely incapable of answering, and yet equally hopeless in our pursuit.

There are many reasons why we ruminate, but at the very least, it's a potential strategy and what’s the harm in trying, right? 

While asking questions is obviously important, the biggest issue is that we tend to ask the wrong questions. 

Wrong questions naturally lead to wrong answers, which can only strengthen our depression and mental illness. 

Trying to understand why we have depression is one of them.

In fact, trying to understand why we have depression is a lot like trying to create a movie that has no verifiable plot. 

With this kind of rumination we form terrible, uninformed explanations that don't bring us any closer to understanding our depression. 

We add all sorts of characters, scenes and props to our movies, however without an underlying plot - none of it can be pieced together into a coherent narrative that can help us make sense of the situation.

Of course, we're not stupid. After a while we notice that our explanations are rubbish, and so we try to improve on them.

So we continue adding more characters, more dialogue, not realising that the underlying issue is the overall lack of plot.

The issue with this approach is that it merely provides us with hope, rather than with a proper understanding of our depression, which is why depression often functions as a series of neverending cycles, where we think we understand our condition, only to fall back down into despair. 

Instead, I am going to introduce you to a different way of thinking about depression, that fundamentally changes the types of questions we ask about ourselves.

Instead, we are going to approach constructing our explanations with a plot in mind. 

It's really quite simple and a whole new way of understanding not only our depression, however the way we process life in general. 



It’s a simple, though incredibly powerful way of looking at things: 

Instead of asking why we’re depressed, let’s instead ask how we get depressed. 

While it may not seem significant, asking questions from this different point of view radically changes not only our definition of what depression is, but also how we relate to the emotions and feelings we experience. 

Why the how is more important.

Humans are inherently curious creatures, driven to explore, destroy and create in the most dramatic of ways. Humans have been asking the question of « why » since the moment we were able to communicate the very thoughts rushing through our brain. 

Yet despite the vast knowledge we have of the world and the universe at large, we still have no idea why things are the way we are. 

We don’t understand why the universe began, why the speed of light travels at a constant, why gravity exists, amongst the millions of other questions our species has pondered. 

Not that it’s ever mattered, because in the process we’ve managed to understand how these things work, and by understanding how they work, we have been able to understand how they relate to and affect our lives. 

While we don’t know why gravity is a fundamental force of nature, it hasn’t stopped us from being able to measure and observe gravity, include the basic understanding that if you jump from a tree, the impact is probably going to hurt in a bad, bad way. 

In other words, the why isn’t important, though more importantly, that understanding understanding why does not provide us with any insight into how something truly works. 

That’s stupid. You’re stupid.  

The beauty of intuitive explanations is that they rely on basic definitions. 

No more long-winded multi-paragraph explanations describing this thing called « self-awareness « . Just words. Simple, three-to-potentially-twenty-letter words. Brilliant. 

The difference between how and why is quite simple: 

How aims to explain the process.

Why aims to explain the meaning behind the process. 

Therefore, it is imperative that we focus on processes, in particular, the process of depression. Yes, believe it or not, depression is a process. 

While this does not seem significant, this is huge game changer in the way that we can come to understand our depression. 

When you break depression down to a question of how, it can then be understood from the point of view of a process that takes place in our minds. And you know the best thing about processes: Processes are entirely predictable. 

A process can be thought of is a series of events that have a beginning and an end. Even more simply, they can be thought of a sequential breakdown of the events that occur in your life. 

Even if you consider yourself a drunken mess of incomprehensible disorganisation, there are everyday processes which we can all identify. You may notice that at some point in the day we may wake up and sleep. 

At some point in the day we eat. When we eat, you may notice that we need to get the ingredients from the fridge or pantry to be processed.  Which ingredients? How is it processed? Do you eat with a fork or a spoon or with your hands? 

These are all questions which can help us better understand the processes (the how of life) which occur in our lives and is an excellent place to start with better understanding our depression. 

Remember, understanding why something happens does not provide us with insight into how it works. Only by understanding how something works can we affect the circumstances around us. 

Identifying the process of depression. 

So you’re convinced that depression can be understood from the point of view of a process.

Well, great! 

Now give me all your money and sign up to my newsletter. 

/*   SIGN UP TO MY NEWSLETTER   */

Of course, the fun doesn’t stop there. 









Understanding the process of depression needs to be gradual. I’m not expecting you or anyone to immediately understand how everything in your life works, however that doesn’t mean we cannot start small. 

To ease ourselves into this new paradigm, we need to understand that asking the question of how can largely be thought of as a different way of thinking.

To engage with this new way of thinking, we need to ask basic questions in regards to the processes in our lives. 

Earlier we asked to identify the basic processes in our lives and that is what we are going to do now. It is important that we consciously identify these processes, because it engages our brain to think about these things. 

It is important to start small because it allows us to identify smaller processes, before we can identity larger ones. 

To start, we are going to list the things that we do on a daily basis. It doesn’t need to be comprehensive. It just needs to be anything you can remember. 

Remember, baby steps. In fact, this idea of baby steps is a misconception I must address. 

The biggest misconception about beginning steps is that they are pointless. In actual fact, beginning steps are fundamental in ways that contradict our understanding of learning. 

Pointlessness is a perception based on how we measure our time and effort. In our minds, we assume that more is better, that efforts need to be rigorous in order to gain something. 

It is part of the reason why we think so much and ruminate about our depression; this idea that effort can be a sign of effectiveness. 

This is untrue and the fact that these steps are basic or easy should is not a sign of ineffectiveness, and is one of the key lessons we will come to learn about understanding processes. 

An example of this is when I started learning undergraduate maths approximately one month ago. 

The first two weeks are a nightmare. You have no real idea what’s going on, and it feels like a waste of time. In actual fact, you’re simply getting familiar with the terminology and the way maths is.

To break it down into something more fundamental, there is a difference between actual thinking and learning to think. 

Not to go too in-depth, however thinking is very much an unconscious process, whilst learning to think is a highly conscious process, though this a post for another time. 

Back to our original task, write down some basic tasks you carry out through a typical day. 

Here’s what I can come up with:

- Wake up. 
- Take bus.
- Work.
- Eat lunch.
- Resume work. 
- Take bus home.
- Eat dinner.

Then take one of these processes and describe what happens. For example, with waking up in the morning:

- Hear alarm. 
- Turn off alarm.
- Cuddle girlfriend. 
- Get out of bed. 
- Put clothes on.
- Put charged laptop into bag. 
- Pack lunch.
- Leave house. 

The point of these exercises is to help us become more aware of what goes on in our lives, so we can understand how these processes affect us. 

A common misconception many people have is that because we experience depression, we know what actually goes on.

The problem is that even though we have an unconscious recollection of the experience, we don’t have a conscious understand what what took place. 

It’s like the difference between those who read about popular science and those who study the science itself. 

Though the people who read the popular science books have their own understanding of how things work, they often have difficulty explaining what they know with words. 

Much the same can be said of our depression. 

While we can maintain a personal understanding of what our depression is, such as how it feels or what might have triggered it, to actually describe a complete picture of our depression can be a struggle. 

That’s okay and the details of our depression is something we can worry about later. For the time being, we only need to focus on other more basic processes that we are familiar with. 

Once we lay the foundation for the easy stuff, it will make it a lot easier to approach the more difficult stuff - like your depression.  

Painting a clearer picture of our depression

So now we have an idea of some of these processes which occur in our day-to-day lives. This is a big step, especially if it’s something you’ve never thought out. 

That’s pretty cool. 

Inherently, people don’t actively think in terms of processes. Instead, a lot of what we do is internalised subconsciously in our minds, precisely so we don’t have to think. 

Have you ever traveled to work or maybe even brushed your teeth before bed and immediately after, felt as if you’d been magically transported through time? 

This happens often with tasks we do on a regular basis. We complete them so many times, we no longer need to think of them and we no longer need to consciously think about doing them. 

Our depression functions on a similar basis. We simply engage in behaviours without consciously questioning how they may affect us; behaviours which form into processes which lead to our depression. 

Back to our more familiar processes however, our next step is to continue elaborating so we can continue to grow this new way of thinking. Let’s stick to when we wake up. 

There are a few angles or points of view you can take:

- What time do you wake up? 
- How do you feel when you wake up?
- How long does it take you to wake up?
- What do you see when you wake up? 
- What is the purpose of waking up? 


You may notice something as well when you think about these questions. Your mind slows down. Yes, that is because you are now self-reflecting. 

In fact, what this entire article has described is a process of self-awareness through meditation. 

Tricky, ey? 

Now the idea is to do the same with your depression, to break it down into components so we can understand the wider process and therefore prevent ourselves from future episodes. 

However, that is not what we are going to do. 

Because at the end of the day, dismantling our depression is not an effective strategy. What’s truly important, is changing the way we think to understanding the question of how, rather than why. 

It’s all about how you frame it. 

As you may discover (self-discovery spoiler alert!) depression can be caused by anything, at will, from nearly everything. 

Only by changing the way we think, can we change the way we view the world and subsequently, prevent ourselves from our depression.

Like anything, start small. 

All you need is a few minutes a day and everything will begin to piece together. You could be at the cafe. In the shower. In the car. 

Just ask yourself: What process am I currently engaging in? How does it make me feel? Where the hell am I?

Only through engaging this conscious questions can we eventually 

Of course, there is one glaring issue that I need to raise with this method. 

While following this method can help you understand your depression and how it arises, it cannot actually prevent you engaging in behaviours that make you depressed. 

While it can help you understand that certain people in your life are toxic, it can’t give you the courage to actually cut them off.

In most cases however, having that understanding is enough to motivate people to change. 

Otherwise, I cannot think of a non-violent, nor ethical way to help. 

In other cases, you may simply lack the domain knowledge to be able to understand the process at hand, in which case professionals can readily close the gap. 

This is particularly true if your depression is caused by a nutritional issue (as is often the case) and you don’t quite understand how eating junk food and getting five hours of sleep a night is affecting your mood.

Again I emphasise this heavily: Knowing that junk food is bad and being able to clearly put into words how junk food affects your mood as process are two completely different things. 

Conscious. Conscious. Conscious. It’s about changing the way we think, not about want we know. People who smoke know it’s bad for them. They simply don’t consciously engage with this understanding enough to truly realise how bad it is. 

Sounds stupid, I know, but the practice of actually consciously thinking about something is much more difficult to do in reality, as opposed to simply read about it. 

Honestly, don’t worry.

So there you have it: A certifiable method to help you understand your depression. Understandably this article fails to cover , and didn’t go into the specifics of depression itself, however I feel it doesn’t need to.

What is most important is how you think. Once you sort that out, the problems disappear along with it.   

All it takes is a few minutes a day, which will become more and more frequent the more you stick to it. It’s a skill that grows with time. 

Baby steps… I mean, super fundamental awesome steps. 

Oh, and you can let go of my hand now. 