+++

tags = [ "update", "post", "blog"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
keywords = "not posting, blog, blog post, not ranking lol" 
layout = "layout"
date = "2017-03-16T03:23:16+02:00"
draft = false
slug = "non-postal"
title = "Non-Postal"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/10.png"
thumbnailalt = "Non Postal"

description = "I haven't been posting and blog posts lately. And it's entirely your fault - Julius Reade"


+++

<!--
Non-Postal

-->

I haven't been posting lately.

And it's entirely your fault. 

Naturally I'm going to blame you and absolutely anything or anyone else but myself, because of the kind of blight that seeps from your personality like a derelict, sunken ship. 

So please allow me to try and paint that glorious picture, that honed nautical possession of fluctuating visual image, which I'm sure you'll prize more than the explicitly gorgeous Mona Lisa.   

Firstly, I moved house.

Which means I've been packing shit, boxing shit, arranging dodgy deals with even dodgier people (real estate agents) and let me tell you, it's been an absolute nightmare.

Repeat. An absolute nightmare.

A nightmare I'm still dealing with, because the show must go on. 

The amount of time I've spent cleaning, gardening and wasting away on this property defies excess. 

I've had to take time off work. I've had to argue with the most incompetent house-cleaners. I've had to wrestle my house-mate into getting anything done. 

Please kill me. I honestly dare you.

Anyway, that's all sorted now.

lol jks, because today I got news that the back and front yard hasn't been ravaged to a high-enough standard yet, which according to their demands, is going to require yet another full day's work. 

But that's hardly the issue. 

The issue is that they've literally provided us with one day to prepare, without warning, in lieu of this thing called "full-time work" otherwise risk losing hundreds of dollars in bond money for the lonely cause of corrupt capitalism.

Not that it actually matters, because a skip is going to cost $250 minimum and yes, I'm not very happy. 

But wait!

There's more!

I have also been horribly sick.

"Under the guise of a nasty fever, I laid there with pride, potentially unremise to the world around me."

The bastard chewed through me like a dead dog.

The worst part is that I contracted the fever on the very morning of the big move out, which following days of strenuous lifting and moving, wasn't very fun. 

Not to mention all the additional work getting the house ready for inspection, my actual paid work duties, and it's literally left me with no time to rest. 

Three fucking truck loads of house. 

In one day. 

Listen, I'm a fit guy. 

I lift weights three times a week. I don't eat junk. At the very least I look good.

So I would describe myself as being somewhat capable of pulling my weight. 

Let me tell you, my body was in tears by the end of it, and continued to cry for the next week or so.

I could barely walk.

My arms turned to jelly. 

Then of course, there's the unpacking, and moving, and general process of finialising everything.

Bleh.  

Bleh.

Yo?

Ummmm, I may have also 'damaged' my hands over-typing on my laptop, to the point where I struggle to type without significant paid. 

Which meant I had (and continue to have) a difficult time typing anything.

Ideally I wouldn't be typing at all, and allow my hands to fully recover, however I estimate that would take around one month of inactivity, which is highly impractical given my work is fully dependent on using a computer.

Regardless, it's an article I'll attend to at some point.

Oh, and I also relapsed. 

One and a half months. I did mighty well and I'm on-track now, but when you're sick, bored and alone - why the hell not. 

So that's why I haven't been posting lately. 

And that's why you should marry me. 



