+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
keywords = "mental illness, obsession, " 
layout = "layout"
date = "2017-04-30T11:33:26+08:00"
draft = true
slug = "how-i-easily-manage-addiction"
title = "How I Easily Manage Addiction"
aliases = [

]

thumbnail = "/img/blog/13.png"
thumbnailalt = "How I Mostly Overcome Triggers"

description = "How I Mostly Overcome Triggers - Julius Reade"

+++


<!--

    How I easily manage addiciton. 

 -->

I'm far from perfect. 

Everyone has problems and everybody suffers at times.

In most cases, admitting these problems severely contradicts the image they portray to society. 

But of course, we believe the shame of a admitting that we're wrong far outweights 

Problems that severely contradict who they claim to be. 

I'm no different. 

Now I'm not sure how useful this will be to anyone, because everyone's pathway is different. 

Anyway, I've found something that I think works. 


I think the problem is in the details: 

We all know the theory of how things should work, yet we crumble when it actually comes time to executing.

Self-awareness is a classic example. 

We know what it is, yet to actually be self-aware is a concept most of us struggle with. 

The same goes for addiction. 

For years I knew what needed to be done to stop addiction, yet I didn't quite have the details down. 

Which either for better or worse, meant a battle of trial and error to figure it out. 

And I think I have it figured out. 











This idea of pathways is really cool and I'm something I'm incredibly excited to share with you today.

A pathway is like a framework of choice. 

Rather than view our decisions individually, a pathway essentially maps out the outcomes of the individual choices we make, so that we don't have to bother ourselves with the small details. 

And when you no longer have to worry about the small things, you no longer have doubt or anxiety in what you're doing or why. 

Because you already know why. You already know what the outcome is, and it's incredibly empowering. 



The main issue pathways addresses is our lack foresight into how our actions affect our future.

It's the reason we get discouraged during uni. It's the reason we give up halfway into our pursuit for success.

It's because we don't know how our effort is contributing towards our goal.

In the beginning, you're going to want to be quite specific with what you want to achieve.

You have to tell yourself that in three months time, you expect to be 




Why it's always hard starting out

- expectations 
- confusion



The thing I love about pathways is that it can be incredibly vague, as long as you know you're heading in the right direction. 

In my particular case, I'm obsessed with programming and I want to become a professional programmer.

I know that all I have to do is spend at least four hours each day programming, and within the next three years I will have the skills to become a professional programmer. 

End of story. 

Of course, for you it will be much different, because this is the end-goal narrative you create once you do develop the passion and discipline for what you want to achieve.

In the beginning  




I don't worry about what I'm learning. 


Of course, my narrative is actually a lot simplier than that:

I know that if I spend all my free-time learning and that I try my best at everything, I do I will eventually get ahead and achieve my goals. 

The beautiful thing about having something so simple is that it a

There is nothing more to ask. 



 
