+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
keywords = "yolo" 
layout = "layout"
date = "2017-02-08T11:33:26+11:00"
draft = true
slug = "what-it-means-to-be-an-adult"
title = "My Two Philosophies When They Were Cool"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/09.png"
thumbnailalt = "What It Means To Be An Adult"

description = ""


+++

<!--
My Two Philosophies When They Were Cool

-->

I don't really know what to think of philosophies. 

I think part of the problem is that they're inherently personal. 

While it's not something a lot of us think about, adulthood is an important part of growing up. 



I've been thinking about this a lot lately.

About what it means to becoming this thing that is expected of people, as if it's some kind of natural progression we're supposed to embrace. 

Certainly, the idea of becoming an adult is silly.




It's an attitude we have. 



What it means to be an adult. - Be an adult 95% of the time.  My main definition is that it means to do everything your power to better your children. It means improving yourself and being all the traits you’d like your children to be. It is a self-realisation that your future generations are more important than you are, and that you must do everything in your power to support them - even if they aren’t alive yet. Most people don’t have this realisation until after they have a girlfriend, or until they actually have a child. The smart ones figure it out early. Of course, I wasn’t that smart and I figured it out waaaaaaay later. 

Responsible adults pursue success. That is an important fact to consider. 


I have two very simple philosophies in life. 











