+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
keywords = "yolo" 
layout = "layout"
date = "2017-12-03T16:23:26+13:00"
draft = false
slug = "daddy-reades-delicious-comeback"
title = "Daddy Reade's Delicious Comeback"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/24.png"
thumbnailalt = "Daddy Reade's Delicious Comeback"

description = ""

+++

Please allow me to elaborate on what's taken place over these past few months.

For starters, I've taken a break from writing.

In part, to let go of the fear and obligation I feel for having to write.

Which I think I've happily achieved.

I no longer stress about having to write these posts, nor maintain this illusion that I'm slicker than crack cocaine. 

Because let's be quite honest, my dear and lovely reader. 

They're nothing more than sociopathic ego-wank and as good as it feels to glorify myself in same way that Lil Wayne thinks he's cooler than a carton of eggs. 

It's secondary to actually buying a set of grills and saying the n-word like an autistic child. 

Which brings me to my second point.

I haven't been writing because I've been busy building my media empire. 

Like a sick dog regurgitating on it's own vomit, people will happily pay to witness the self-deprivation in full view. 

And oh boy, how I will make these people pay. 

Let's see. 

I have this incredible startup idea that I've been hastily piecing together over these past months. 

I've put my heart and soul into this project, and it's been absolutely delicious.

Mouth-wateringly fucked. 

Essentially, what I've gone and done is built my own automated, affiliate marketing CMS.

The word 'automated' here is key. 

I can achieve in 2 minutes what would ordinarily take 'the average marketer' 30 minutes to do manually. 

This is my advantage. 

This is why I'm going to kill and leave the competition out for dead. 

No more shitty Wordpress templates with outdated Bootstrap frameworks. 

This is business, baby. 

I am literally going to chew through the internet like a madman with a semi-automatic. 

First, the children.

And then I'm going to mow down their moms.

(the most delicate of online shoppers, of course)

Good UX and design? Check. Incredible brand awareness? Check.

And the best thing?

My baby is fully scalable so I can create as many websites as I want, at minimal cost and effort.

Without the technical skill, most of these marketers are paying $12 for hosting per month. 

Per website - on some awful shared-hosting plan. 

Myself on the other hand, am paying a flat $5 fee per month.

For an incredibly fast dedicated server - and each website I add on top of that is completely free. 

In addition, unlike the derelict one-toothed whore that is Wordpress.

My CMS is blazingly fast. 

It's so fast it's built on fuckin' Erlang.

Which also keeps server costs down, because it uses dramatically less resources than a Wordpress website.

Let alone a bloated Wordpress website with 50,000 plugins and an incompetent admin who's spewing his guts over the husk remains of his shit-bed. 

They say in life you need two prominent skills to be successful, and in my case it's marketing and web development. 

I suppose I'm excited because it's the first time I've pursued something with an effective and proven buisness model. 

In a sense, it's as if I've been unconsciously preparing for this moment my entire life.

All those websites and brands I've created over the years, not to mention all that time wasted in Photoshop.

Writing unsolicited poetry in hope that girls would notice.

Culminating into the precipice of this very wonderful venture.

Which I believe will make me very, very rich.

Of course, that's what I've thought about every other venture I've rushed into. 

So I could be entirely wrong. 

But you know what?

Fuck it. 

These online brands are 100% me, and that's all I really have in life. 

You see, you never really sell products. 

You sell personality and that's why I think it's going to succeed. 

Because I like who I am, and I think a lot of other people will to. 

So that's what I've been doing. 

Building monetary funnels upon the shoulders of giants. 

Of course, I could go on about how I severely pulled my back during a recent deadlift.

Which put me out of action for a few months. 

(resulting in learning of fine art)

Or how I'm currently suffering from the most debilitating fever I've ever experienced.

(it's been nearly two weeks and I'm still sick)

But I'm on course to do something amazing, and so that's what I want you to remember. 

Your participation is key. 

Awful Christmas is the name.

https://awfulchristmas.com/

Dun forget it. 