+++

tags = [ "depression", "Mental Illness guide", "Mental Illness,"]
categories = [ "depression", "mental illness", "blog" ]
keywords = "yolo" 
layout = "layout"
date = "2018-01-17T13:23:26+13:00"
draft = false
slug = "my-last-post-hopefully"
title = "My Last Post, Hopefully"

thumbnail = "/img/blog/25.png"
thumbnailalt = "My Last Post, Hopefully"

description = ""

+++

I want to take a break from writing. 

You see, I have a problem. 

I have issue communicating my thoughts honestly. 

Not only does it not interest me, however I have this habit of creating these awful, twisted characters with my words.

Which is really great for you, the reader.

And certainly, was the purpose of getting these words out there.

<!-- In order to convey story for the point of insight and entertainment.  -->

However, is an issue in the sense that this expression of word is also primarily a form of suffering.

And that although it is a form of suffering I entertain to.

As well as a form of suffering that society glamourises as a 'fruitful' intellectual activity.

It is certainly not something anyone should ever aspire to. 

Nor pretend is even vaguely okay. 

It is arcane at best. 

In a sense, you could say that my writing contributes to my bipolar. 

And the reason as per why, has been clear to me for quite a while: 

Words are not honest beings.

At best they are nothing more than recognisable shapes.

Screaming for your love and attention. 

And listen, when you've taken as many drugs as I have. 

Absolutely everything becomes abstract to the point of colour. 

And I suppose that's why I love them. 

Why I toy with them on a daily basis. 

Because they allow me to construct my own reality. My own sense of self-worth. 

What I'm discovering however, at least as I become older.

Is that I'm wanting to reconnecting with reality, rather than disconnect from it. 

A reality far away from the fantasy worlds of suffering and grandeur that I've created. 

Based on the women from my past, the events of my trauma, and the awfulness of my childhood. 

It is ugly. 

It is benign.

It is pointless. 

And while part of me knew this all along, I was also scared and afraid. 

Scared and afraid to let go.

And so I held onto my shadow under the thin guise of hope, that maybe these memories could provide me with some sense of wellbeing. 

I was wrong. 

(although, I can write really well now, so not all was lost!)

On the other hand, there was another contributing factor to my demise. 

The sheer arrogance to believe that I was immune from these words. 

That I could simply take these characters and make them groove without interfering with my own atmosphere. 

HA.

The insanity pursues. 

Certainly, I have a lot to look forward to in life. 

I have my career which I love, as well as my incredible partner who cooks the most amazing meals. 

I have my mind, ready to devour the world around it, and the sky to... 

And. 

We stop. 

As you may have noticed, this is the crucial moment in which I create the character, become manic and then splatter into a thousand different pieces.

All equally as intangible as the next.  

This is why it is in my best interest to stop.

To stop creating these characters, and to simply co-exist with the knowledge and understanding that everything is OK. 

I suppose there are a lot of posts you will never have the opportunity to read. 

For example, the post about what it was like to grow up with two fathers, or the eight billion self-help guides I've managed to write over the past year. 

...as they enter the digital graveyard of my harddrive, never to be seen again. 

For the time being however, I want to focus on my mental health. 

I want to remove all the distractions from my life, and I want to make it as simple as possible to remain aware of myself. 

So I can be within walking distance of my awareness, and not get caught up in the mental traps I tend to create for myself.

Seclusion, with a hint of lime. 
